# What makes a Champ!!
The dataset provided to us is broader than the previous one and thus it will be more helpful for looking at the performance of players as we can observe their performance over different matches for a year, one way to accumulate this overall performance is to take the mean of their performance values over different aspects. For this assignment I decided to look for the factors which distinguish a normal player from the Champions and how the champions in themselves are similar or different to each other. As we are talking about the champions, I decided to take only the winners of different matches into account and perform the analysis over them and then see the performance of top 30 players(note that these winners would also be the losers in other matches but we are not focusing on those matches, the analysis is over what makes them a winner). I decided to take 30 players so that rookies are excluded while mediocre players remain there. To see how different players generally play their game I took First Point Won and Second Point Won into consideration. I finalized with these points (over others like winner, error) to see the phase of the game over which the given players generally depend.
To show this comparison between players over two different factor I decided to go with the ‘Scatter-Plot’ graph, my reason is simple that I need to show two different values for each player over the same scale. I could have used grouped bar chart also, but these bars would have provided a quite dense concentration of colors (either being parallel or overlapping), the dots on the other hands have better data-ink ratio and are quite easy on our eyes too. I decided to show First Point Won by Red color as players are generally fast for that serve and Red signifies a hot/warm color while Second Point Won are shown by Blue as the players are generally controlled for that serve thus cool color for a cool situation. Other than this player names are on Y axis as on X-axis their orientation(vertical) would have made the readability difficult and keeping them in a normal Position(horizontally) would have extended the width of the graph for no use. I created this graph using d3 only.
To compare the champions itself, I took factors to address both attacking and defending in the game. For this a bar graph would have been too congested even a dot chart would have been hard to look so I finalized with ‘Radar-Chart’ as they have a visual impact as it is easy to see patterns in them. To show top 4 players over this Radar I took 4 distinct colors that do not get mixed with each other and are also looking good with the white background of my page. I took six factors and user can see the comparison of these players over these 6 factors: First Serve Point, First Point Won, Second Point Won, Break Point, Return & Net. All these factors are in percentages only. Making this chart was so convoluted, I had to use chart.js library for it.
At last I’m showing the images of Top 4 players for that particular year because they are worth it. (Note that you can change the year by the slider on the top.)
Observations: Scatter-Plot shows that there is not much difference between First Point Won of different players, this difference only increases (that too not that large) as we go down. The mediocre players have a somewhat higher value than champs, this shows that champions do not depend on First Point Won instead this Second point won are a bigger factor for them as it leads to rally and they score there. Thus, we can say that First Point Won are not an important factor to decide your game, although you can say that the players with high First Point Won have better serving (an extra insight). Other than this we can see that the difference between these two types of points is less for top players this shows that they have a controlled game and do not depend on either on Fast serves or rallies. The Radar-chart shows the comparison between top 4 players, now as we are talking about the top 4 it is expected to see a similar trait between them and yet Radar-chart is powerful enough to see where these player have similarities/differences. In this chart the defensive nature can be seen using Break and Return points and the attacking nature can be seen using First, Second Point won and Net points. Thus, we can compare their playing nature.
